# Obscuro Doc Site

This is the Obscuro Doc Site and it looks like [this](https://docs.obscu.ro/).

## Adding New Doc Site Pages

1. Clone this repository: https://github.com/obscuronet/go-obscuro
2. Create your new content as a Markdown file in the `/docs` folder of the repo. Take care with the folder structure. 
   As a general rule, new titles in the left hand navigation menu should have their content contained in a seperate 
   subfolder under docs, for example, `/docs/testnet` contains all the Markdown files relation to the testnet docs.
3. To have this new content shown in the left-hand navigation menu you need to modify the file 
   `/docs/_data/navigation.yml`. Follow the same format to add new headings and content titles. Remember to specify the 
   file type as `.html` for your new Markdown files, not `.md` when providing the URL.
4. Push your changes to obscuronet/go-obscuro
5. GitHub Pages will trigger a GitHub Action to use a Jekyll build job to create the static content and then publish 
   the pages at the custom URL.
6. Browse to https://docs.obscu.ro/ and check your content. Remember your browser will cache some of the pages so hit 
   refresh a few times if it looks like the content is missing or the navigation menu is incorrect.

## Updating Existing Doc Site Pages

This is the same as `Adding New Doc Site Pages`, above, but omitting step #3.

## Generating the HTML files locally

You can check the HTML generated by your Markdown changes as follows:

1. [Install Jekyll](https://jekyllrb.com/docs/installation/)
2. Run the Jekyll build command to build the site pages:

   ```
   cd ./docs
   bundle exec jekyll build
   ```

   This will create new html pages from your Markdown pages.
